sadness 
Depression

sadder, saddest
Affected or characterized by sorrow or unhappiness.
Expressive of sorrow or unhappiness.
Causing sorrow or gloom; depressing: a sad movie; sad news.
Deplorable; sorry: a sad state of affairs; a sad excuse.
Dark-hued; somber.


Synonyms: sad, melancholy, sorrowful, doleful, woebegone, desolate
These adjectives mean affected with or marked by unhappiness, as that caused by affliction. Sad is the most general: "Better by far you should forget and smile/Than that you should remember and be sad" (Christina Rossetti).
Melancholy can refer to lingering or habitual somberness or sadness: a melancholy poet's gloomy introspection.
Sorrowful applies to emotional pain as that resulting from loss: sorrowful mourners at the funeral.
Doleful describes what is mournful or morose: the doleful expression of a reprimanded child.
Woebegone suggests grief or wretchedness, especially as reflected in a person's appearance: "His sorrow . . . made him look . . . haggard and . . . woebegone" (George du Maurier).
Desolate applies to one that is beyond consolation: "No one is so accursed by fate,/No one so utterly desolate,/But some heart, though unknown,/Responds unto his own" (Henry Wadsworth Longfellow).


	1.	As full of sorrow as the sea of sands William Shakespeare
	2.	Could feel it [the sadness] pierce him like a foreign body in his heart Amos Oz
	3.	Crest-fallen as a dried pear William Shakespeare
	4.	Crest-fallen as a spy who had been caught by a thief Victor Hugo
	5.	Depressing as the last day of fishing Robert Traver
	6.	A feeling of sadness that is not akin to pain, resembles sorrow only as the mist resembles rain Henry Wadsworth Longfellow
	7.	(Scarlett) felt bereft, as though she had sold one of her children Margaret Mitchell The sadness which inspired the comparison was that experienced by the heroine of Gone With the Wind when she sold her lumber business.
	8.	Felt melancholy grip him, like a pain in the heart Mary McCarthy
	9.	(I felt depressed,) filled to the neck with sadness like a carafe with bad wine T. Coraghessan Boyle
	10.	His heart throbbed like a bruise in the sigh Norman Mailer
	11.	His heart would sink down to his bowels like lead Thomas Wolfe
	12.	Looked and acted like a man who had just driven home from a couple of heart-rending funerals George Ade
	1.	Melancholy as a discarded statesman William Mountford
	2.	Melancholy as a fiddle with one string Thomas Holcroft
	3.	My heart is within me as an ash in the fire Algernon Charles Swinburne
	4.	My heart was as lead Jack London
	5.	Pathetic as all final efforts Alice McDermott
	6.	Pathetic as an autumn leaf George Moore
	7.	(A low call,) plaintive as a shepherd calling, to sheep who need no strident invocation Arthur A. Cohen
	8.	Sad as an eagle without wings, sad as a violin with only one string Jean Rhys
	9.	Sad as night William Shakespeare
	10.	Sad as professional mourners F. Scott Fitzgerald
	11.	Sad as twilight George Eliot
	12.	Saddening as a forest fire Robert Traver
	13.	Sad like graveyards Terry Bisson
	14.	Sad  like somebody whos pilot light got blown out a long time ago Susan Kelly
	15.	Sadness  gnawed like a rat at his mind Roderic Jeffries
	16.	Sadness, like that inspired by a grave strain of music Joseph Conrad
	17.	Sadness that, over the years, had gathered in his chest like matter in a clogged drain Joyce Reiser Kornblatt
	18.	
	19.	There would come, like water washing over a sunken buoy, the little knell of sadness Hortense Calisher
Just as similes are used to give dramatic beginning to literary works, they can also be used to wind things up, as demonstrated by this final sentence from Calishers novel, Point of Departure.
sadness - emotions experienced when not in a state of well-being
unhappiness
feeling - the experiencing of affective and emotional states; "she had a feeling of euphoria"; "he had terrible feelings of guilt"; "I disliked him and the feeling was mutual"

dolefulness - sadness caused by grief or affliction

heaviness - persisting sadness; "nothing lifted the heaviness of her heart after her loss"

melancholy - a feeling of thoughtful sadness

misery - a feeling of intense unhappiness; "she was exhausted by her misery and grief"

forlornness, loneliness, desolation - sadness resulting from being forsaken or abandoned

tearfulness, weepiness - sadness expressed by weeping

sorrow - an emotion of great sadness associated with loss or bereavement; "he tried to express his sorrow at her loss"

regret, ruefulness, sorrow, rue - sadness associated with some wrong done or some disappointment; "he drank to drown his sorrows"; "he wrote a note expressing his regret"; "to his rue, the error cost him the game"

cheerlessness, uncheerfulness - a feeling of dreary or pessimistic sadness

depression - sad feelings of gloom and inadequacy

dejectedness, dispiritedness, downheartedness, low-spiritedness, lowness - a feeling of low spirits; "he felt responsible for her lowness of spirits"
happiness - emotions experienced when in a state of well-being
sadness - the state of being sad; "she tired of his perpetual sadness"
sorrowfulness, sorrow
unhappiness - state characterized by emotions ranging from mild discontentment to deep grief

bereavement, mourning - state of sorrow over the death or departure of a loved one

poignance, poignancy - a state of deeply felt distress or sorrow; "a moment of extraordinary poignancy"
sadness - the quality of excessive mournfulness and uncheerfulness
lugubriousness, gloominess
uncheerfulness - not conducive to cheer or good spirits

sadness
noun unhappiness, sorrow, grief, tragedy, depression, the blues, misery, melancholy, poignancy, despondency, bleakness, heavy heart, dejection, wretchedness, gloominess, mournfulness, dolour (poetic), dolefulness, cheerlessness, sorrowfulness

farewell


anguish, blahs, bleakness, blue devils, blue funk, broken heart, bummer, cheerlessness, dejection, despondency, disconsolateness, dismals, dispiritedness, distress, dolefulness, dolor, downcastness, downer, dysphoria, forlornness, funk, gloominess, grief, grieving, heartache, heartbreak, heavy heart, hopelessness, letdown, listlessness, melancholy, misery, moodiness, mopes, mournfulness, mourning, poignancy, sorrow, sorrowfulness, the blues, the dumps, tribulation, woe

anguish, blahs, bleakness, blue devils, blue funk, broken heart, bummer, cheerlessness, dejection, despondency, disconsolateness, dismals, dispiritedness, distress, dolefulness, dolor, downcastness, downer, dysphoria, forlornness, funk, gloominess, grief, grieving, heartache, heartbreak, heavy heart, hopelessness, letdown, listlessness, melancholy, misery, moodiness, mopes, mournfulness, mourning, poignancy, sorrow, sorrowfulness, the blues, the dumps, tribulation, woe


abasement, abjection, abjectness, blahs, bleakness, blue funk, bummer, cheerlessness, dejection, desolation, desperation, despondency, disconsolation, discouragement, dispiritedness, distress, dole, dolefulness, dolor, downheartedness, dreariness, dullness, dumps, ennui, gloom, gloominess, heaviness of heart, heavyheartedness, hopelessness, lowness, lugubriosity, melancholia, melancholy, misery, mortification, qualm, sadness, sorrow, the blues, trouble, unhappiness, vapors, woefulness, worry

anguish, dejection, despair, gloom, gloominess, loneliness, melancholy, misery, mourning, sadness, sorrow, woe, wretchedness


low spirits; despair


an emotion that can be discribed as a pain felt in the heart, or like you are going to implode. can come with the reaction of tears. some people tend to like to stay in dark rooms when under the influence of sadness, others seek desperatly for somone to confide in. some of the symtoms of sadness are crying, cutting, isolation, desperation, frowning, overeating, undereating, and millions of other ways you can cope with it. after effects can vary from headaces and puppy faces to bleeding wrists and hospital visits. the best treatment is laughter, or an embrace from someone you care deeply about.
when her father left, cristan was engulfed in sadness


The feeling of misery/melancholy/depression that we all feel at some point, that is painful, yet necessary for us to feel the opposite, happiness.
I was overcome by sadness when my puppy died, but I knew it was times like this that made it possible for me to feel happiness.



One of the many emotions that defines us as complex human beings. Sadness brings us together, tears us a part and challenges our capacity and will to live.

When you are so extremely happy in life, doing well, but have a constant reminder that there are those who are out to challenge you, hurt you and just start drama for whatever reason they come by. This is saddness.
I'm so happy, my life is amazing. 
I wish everyone would join in, be happy, free of hate. Free of

It's difficult to let go the sadness.



Don't cry because it's over, smile because it happened.

When I despair, I remember that all through history the way of truth and love have always won. There have been tyrants and murderers, and for a time, they can seem invincible, but in the end, they always fall. Think of it--always


Every man has his secret sorrows which the world knows not; and often times we call a man cold when he is only sad.

They say when you are missing someone that they are probably feeling the same, but I don't think it's possible for you to miss me as much as I'm missing you right now

Why do people have to be this lonely? What's the point of it all? Millions of people in this world, all of them yearning, looking to others to satisfy them, yet isolating themselves. Why? Was the earth put here just to nourish human loneliness?

Don't cry over someone who wouldn't cry over you.

What you must understand about me is that Im a deeply unhappy person.

Why do beautiful songs make you sad?' 'Because they aren't true.' 'Never?' 'Nothing is beautiful and true.

And during the course of each day his heart would descend from his chest into his stomach. By early afternoon he was overcome by the feeling that nothing was right, or nothing was right for him, and by the desire to be alone. By evening he was fulfilled: alone in the magnitude of his grief, alone in his aimless guilt, alone even in his loneliness. I am not sad, he would repeat to himself over and over, I am not sad. As if he might one day convince himself. Or fool himself. Or convince others--the only thing worse than being sad is for others to know that you are sad. I am not sad. I am not sad. Because his life had unlimited potential for happiness, insofar as it was an empty white room. He would fall asleep with his heart at the foot of his bed, like some domesticated animal that was no part of him at all. And each morning he would wake with it again in the cupboard of his rib cage, having become a little heavier, a little weaker, but still pumping. And by the midafternoon he was again overcome with the desire to be somewhere else, someone else, someone else somewhere else. I am not sad.

I didn't want to wake up. I was having a much better time asleep. And that's really sad. It was almost like a reverse nightmare, like when you wake up from a nightmare you're so relieved. I woke up into a nightmare.

there are two types of people in the world: those who prefer to be sad among others, and those who prefer to be sad alone.


Imagine smiling after a slap in the face. Then think of doing it twenty-four hours a day


She was a genius of sadness, immersing herself in it, separating its numerous strands, appreciating its subtle nuances. She was a prism through which sadness could be divided into its infinite spectrum.


Tears are words that need to be written.

Don't be ashamed to weep; 'tis right to grieve. Tears are only water, and flowers, trees, and fruit cannot grow without water. But there must be sunlight also. A wounded heart will heal in time, and when it does, the memory and love of our lost ones is sealed inside to comfort us.


I'm lonely. And I'm lonely in some horribly deep way and for a flash of an instant, I can see just how lonely, and how deep this feeling runs. And it scares the shit out of me to be this lonely because it seems catastrophic


There is no point treating a depressed person as though she were just feeling sad, saying, 'There now, hang on, you'll get over it.' Sadness is more or less like a head cold- with patience, it passes. Depression is like cancer.

I said uselessly, "Sam, don't go."

Sam cupped my face in his hands and looked me in the eyes. His eyes were yellow, sad, wolf, mine. 

"These stay the same. Remember that when you look at me. Remember it's me. Please.


Ester asked why people are sad.
"Thats simple," says the old man. "They are the prisoners of their personal history. Everyone believes that the main aim in life is to follow a plan. They never ask if that plan is theirs or if it was created by another person. They accumulate experiences, memories, things, other people's ideas, and it is more than they can possibly cope with. And that is why they forget their dreams.


that attends disaster." Or: "the disappointment of sleeping with one's fantasy." I'd like to show how "intimations of mortality brought on by aging family members" connects with "the hatred of mirrors that begins in middle age.


What, if some day or night a demon were to steal after you into your loneliest loneliness and say to you: 'This life as you now live it and have lived it, you will have to live once more and innumerable times more' ... Would you not throw yourself down and gnash your teeth and curse the demon who spoke thus? Or have you once experienced a tremendous moment when you would have answered him: 'You are a god and never have I heard anything more divine.

If our destiny stems from our name, then I weep for the flower named Wilt.


Tears shed for another person are not a sign of weakness. They are a sign of a pure heart.

When you've suffered a great deal in life, each additional pain is both unbearable and trifling

Someday, well run into each other again, I know it.
Maybe Ill be older and smarter and just plain better. If that happens,
thats when Ill deserve you. But now, at this moment, you cant hook 
your boat to mine, because Im liable to sink us both.

There is some kind of a sweet innocence in being human- in not having to be just happy or just sad- in the nature of being able to be both broken and whole, at the same time.

Was I bitter? Absolutely. Hurt? You bet your sweet ass I was hurt. Who doesn't feel a part of their heart break at rejection. You ask yourself every question you can think of, what, why, how come, and then your sadness turns to anger. That's my favorite part. It drives me, feeds me, and makes one hell of a story.

Tears, idle tears, I know not what they mean, 
Tears from the depths of some devine despair
Rise in the heart, and gather to the eyes, 
In looking on the happy autumn fields, 
And thinking of the days that are no more


I can't eat and I can't sleep. I'm not doing well in terms of being a functional human, you know?

My sister will die over and over again for the rest of my life. Grief is forever. It doesn't go away; it becomes a part of you, step for step, breath for breath. I will never stop grieving Bailey because I will never stop loving her. That's just how it is. Grief and love are conjoined, you don't get one without the other. All I can do is love her, and love the world, emulate her by living with daring and spirit and joy.


I hope no one who reads this book has been quite as miserable as Susan and Lucy were that night; but if you have been - if you've been up all night and cried till you have no more tears left in you - you will know that there comes in the end a sort of quietness. You feel as if nothing is ever going to happen again.

Give sorrow words; the grief that does not speak knits up the o-er wrought heart and bids it break.

There you go...let it all slide out. Unhappiness can't stick in a person's soul when it's slick with tears.

I waste at least an hour every day lying in bed. Then I waste time pacing. I waste time thinking. I waste time being quiet and not saying anything because I'm afraid I'll stutter.

I was in the biggest breakdown of my life when I stopped crying long enough to let the words of my epiphany really sink in. That whore, karma had finally made her way around and had just bitch-slapped me right across the face. The realization only made me cry harder.

Are the days of winter sunshine just as sad for you, too? When it is misty, in the evenings, and I am out walking by myself, it seems to me that the rain is falling through my heart and causing it to crumble into ruins.


My sister will die over and over again for the rest of my life. Grief is forever. It doesn't go away; it becomes a part of you, step for step, breath for breath. I will never stop grieving Bailey because I will never stop loving her. That's just how it is. Grief and love are conjoined, you don't get one without the other. 


i'm sorry
i'm really sorry


i can't be bothered
i can't be bothered
i can't be bothered
i can't be bothered
i'm tired
i'm tired
i'm tired
i'm exhausted
i'm exhausted
i'm exhausted

sorry
sorry to hear that
sorry to hear that
sorry to hear that

what a pity
what a pity
what a pity
what a shame
what a shame
what a shame
bad luck
bad luck
bad luck

ain't happy
ain't happiness
ain't felicity
ain't joy
ain't joyousness
ain't glad
ain't gladness

aren't happy
aren't happiness
aren't felicity
aren't joy
aren't joyousness
aren't glad
aren't gladness

cannot happy 
cannot happiness
cannot felicity
cannot joy
cannot joyousness
cannot glad
cannot gladness

can't happy
can't happiness
can't felicity
can't joy
can't joyousness
can't glad
can't gladness

couldn't happy
couldn't happiness
couldn't felicity
couldn't joy
couldn't joyousness
couldn't glad
couldn't gladness

daren't happy
daren't happiness
daren't felicity
daren't joy
daren't joyousness
daren't glad
daren't gladness

didn't happy
didn't happiness
didn't felicity
didn't joy
didn't joyousness
didn't glad
didn't gladness

doesn't happy
doesn't happiness
doesn't felicity
doesn't joy
doesn't joyousness
doesn't glad
doesn't gladness

don't happy
don't happiness
don't felicity
don't joy
don't joyousness
don't glad
don't gladness

hadn't happy
hadn't happiness
hadn't felicity
hadn't joy
hadn't joyousness
hadn't glad
hadn't gladness

hasn't happy
hasn't happiness
hasn't felicity
hasn't joy
hasn't joyousness
hasn't glad
hasn't gladness

haven't happy
haven't happiness
haven't felicity
haven't joy
haven't joyousness
haven't glad
haven't gladness

isn't happy
isn't happiness
isn't felicity
isn't joy
isn't joyousness
isn't glad
isn't gladness

mayn't happy 
mayn't happiness
mayn't felicity
mayn't joy
mayn't joyousness
mayn't glad
mayn't gladness

mightn't happy
mightn't happiness
mightn't felicity
mightn't joy
mightn't joyousness
mightn't glad
mightn't gladness

mustn't happy
mustn't happiness
mustn't felicity
mustn't joy
mustn't joyousness
mustn't glad
mustn't gladness

needn't happy
needn't happiness
needn't felicity
needn't joy
needn't joyousness
needn't glad
needn't gladness

not happy
not happiness
not felicity
not joy
not joyousness
not glad
not gladness

oughtn't happy
oughtn't happiness
oughtn't felicity
oughtn't joy
oughtn't joyousness
oughtn't glad
oughtn't gladness

shan't happy
shan't happiness
shan't felicity
shan't joy
shan't joyousness
shan't glad
shan't gladness

shouldn't happy
shouldn't happiness
shouldn't felicity
shouldn't joy
shouldn't joyousness
shoudln't glad
shouldn't gladness

wasn't happy
wasn't happiness
wasn't felicity
wasn't joy
wasn't joyousness
wasn't glad 
wasn't gladness

weren't happy
weren't happiness
weren't felicity
weren't joy
weren't joyousness
weren't glad
weren't gladness

won't happy
won't happiness
won't felicity
won't joy
won't joyousness
won't glad
won't gladness

wouldn't happy
wouldn't happiness
wouldn't felicity
wouldn't joy
wouldn't joyousness
wouldn't glad
wouldn't gladness



